- [Instructor] As we are making our way through the layers,
the next one we will tackle is the service layer.
Separation of concern, loose coupling,
orchestration, caching,
are just some of the benefits we will get
from the service layer.
Now let's write our first integration test
that involves interaction between the service
and data layers.
We want to test that we are able
to correctly fetch our student
by making a request to the repository
and assure the response is as expected.
So here we are going to create StudentsServiceTest,
as this is an integration test,
we'll use SpringBootTest annotation.
SpringBootTest works by reading configuration
from SpringBootApplication
and creates an application context
very similar to the one that would be started
in a production environment.
Because we have a full application context,
including web controller services
and spring data repositories,
SpringBootTest is a very convenient for integration tests
that go through all layers of the application,
however, in this test,
we want to isolate all the services and repositories,
and since the WebEnvironment is available in a class puff,
by default, SpringBootTest will load
the mock WebEnvironment.
In order to prevent that,
we need to add WebEnvironment equals NONE.
Now we can create our Test method,
getStudentByID_forSavedStudent_isReturned.
If we want to give a more meaningful description,
we can also use junit five, DisplayName annotation.
In our example, returning saved student from service layer.
Again, we will organize our tests
into given, when, then structure.
In the given part, we want to have our student
already saved in our database,
therefore we need to inject the student's repository,
which we created in the previous chapter,
and save a new student.
Now, we can call StudentRepository.save new Student.
Keep in mind that SpringBootTest
does not contain transactional notation,
like there's data GPI test slice,
which means any interaction will not get rolled back.
This means that any interaction with DB stays persisted
and can cause side effects
for other tests running at the same time,
so we need to add Transactional.
In the when part, we want to invoke studentService component
by calling a new method that accepts student ID,
and returns student.
We will call this method getStudentById,
and provide ID for saved student.
Now, we will add a new field name,
StudentService, and the type, studentService,
and need to create a new class
and market with service and rotation
to be registered in the spring context.
What is left to do is create an implementation,
so in StudentService, we need to create missing method.
At this moment, we don't care about implementation,
so let's return now for now.
Remember we are doing red green refactor TDD.
In the test, we can now alter our StudentService
and verify that the retrieved student
does really contain the right name and ID,
which is not Null.
Now let's run our test.
So, why did our tests fail?
Well, we haven't really called a repository.
Let's do that now.
We need to inject StudentRepository.
We'll use the required argsConstructor from lonbok
to use constructor injection.
For retrieving a student,
we will invoke findById method,
which comes from GPA repository.
Since findById returns our students in Optional,
we have many options how to deal with missing student.
For now, we can just return now
in case student is not found.
Great, let's rerun our test.
And there we have it!
We have successfully created our first integration test
involving both service and repository layer
in our application.